LIsa Anderson: Hi there.
Amber Romero: Hi.
LIsa Anderson: Hi, can you hear me.
LIsa Anderson: Yes. Okay, great. I'm going to just
LIsa Anderson: Your phones are you doing today.
Amber Romero: I'm good, how are you
LIsa Anderson: I think you all, you probably know my name is Lisa Anderson and one of the therapists here with bright heart.
LIsa Anderson: So, um, today I think we're just going to kind of go through a few, a few things as far as getting started working together. Um, but I just wanted to clarify. First, you're, you're pretty new. Right. Yes.
Amber Romero: Say I just did my intake Friday I met with the doctor on Monday.
LIsa Anderson: Great. Okay. And he probably asked you a bunch of questions.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah intake as well.
Amber Romero: Oh, yes.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, well, I don't want to
LIsa Anderson: repeat everything to hear any kind of ask you a little bit about, like, just your history, your family, did you guys talk about stuff like that.
Amber Romero: Um, he, he asked me if I had
Amber Romero: Like a family history of addiction.
Amber Romero: But that's as far as I remember.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. Well, I certainly don't want to make you feel like you're you're answering a bunch of questions that
LIsa Anderson: You've already answered.
LIsa Anderson: Shorter and Dr. Amen. You know, he's your
LIsa Anderson: Your prescriber and the doc.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
Well,
LIsa Anderson: What would you say kind of brings you to treatment.
Amber Romero: Now what's what's
LIsa Anderson: Going on for you.
Amber Romero: Um, well, I mean, it made several attempts it
Amber Romero: Several years. So I mean it's not something new. It's just something I need to keep on trying.
Amber Romero: Hey,
LIsa Anderson: Was there any major event or particular reason that you would say kind of precipitated your, your motivation to kind of
Try again. This time,
Amber Romero: I'm my kids.
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Um, I'm sorry, ever. Sometimes I don't know if this is on my end.
LIsa Anderson: I know a lot of people are getting on zoom lately. So, okay. Um, so, so your cancer. The main reason you're kind of wanting to do treatment right now. I'm, what I'm what's kind of your history with substances like what would you say was maybe the first
LIsa Anderson: Time. How old were you when you first tried are used to substance.
Amber Romero: Um, would that include marijuana
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, yeah. So going back to just anything how, like, how old were you the first time you tried marijuana
Um,
Amber Romero: Gosh, probably would.
LIsa Anderson: Have. Okay, and what from the time you tried it. Was it like a regular thing, and from that time.
Amber Romero: No, not, not really.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, I'm just kind of tried it.
LIsa Anderson: First, yeah. Okay.
Amber Romero: If it was, if it was around and available then
Amber Romero: Yes, I would. You know, smoke and stuff but
Amber Romero: It was it is readily available, it is now that I'm an adult.
LIsa Anderson: Right. Right. Okay. Have you ever used alcohol.
Amber Romero: Yes, I have tried
Amber Romero: It was probably about same age, my book 13
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: And and what was the pattern with that, did you kind of just try it. Drink when you
LIsa Anderson: Was around
Amber Romero: I mean he against somebody I don't really remember too much, um,
Amber Romero: Yea, it had to have been with maybe some of my friends, my mom had
Amber Romero: Like this.
Amber Romero: Like this hunch that
Amber Romero: Like alcohol, the bottom so would like silly alcohol and then put water in it. So she wanted. Notice
LIsa Anderson: Okay and I'm just going to go through
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: And you can just answer, yes.
Amber Romero: Yes, you're
Amber Romero: Cutting out those
Amber Romero: red lines next year name, so I don't know what's on your mind.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, I'm sorry. I can hear you.
I
LIsa Anderson: Will just
Give it a minute.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Is that better now.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: What about a container cigarettes you smoke or
Yes.
Amber Romero: You use those charger.
LIsa Anderson: Um, do you currently smoke.
LIsa Anderson: Yes. Okay, about how many cigarettes or a day would you say
Amber Romero: Um, but most probably 10
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: All right. Um, and you mentioned you tried marijuana. What about me in the past or currently cocaine and crack
Amber Romero: Um, maybe in the past.
Amber Romero: Like high school years.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, what about methamphetamines
Amber Romero: Um, I've heard that in the past as well. Um,
Amber Romero: Probably like early 20s.
Amber Romero: Before I started having kids.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, what about inhalants
Amber Romero: No. Okay.
Any stimulants.
Amber Romero: Such as
uppers.
LIsa Anderson: Um,
LIsa Anderson: I know hallucinogens
LIsa Anderson: No. Okay. And then what about your history with heroin and opiates.
Amber Romero: Um, they started using heroin.
Amber Romero: 11 years ago.
LIsa Anderson: There was a time frame where maybe your use got the highest or the worst.
Amber Romero: Yes.
Amber Romero: I'm
Amber Romero: Like, I can't even pinpoint that I mean it's
Amber Romero: It's always been
Amber Romero: See
Amber Romero: The worst I've ever been.
LIsa Anderson: Hey, I'm in up until like this point.
LIsa Anderson: Or recently. How often would you say you're using
Amber Romero: Days, but you can
Amber Romero: Control for a minute. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Um, and then
LIsa Anderson: The method of us does it
LIsa Anderson: For all
Amber Romero: Injection AB.
LIsa Anderson: IV injection. Okay. Um, and
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so that was kind of kind of the worst. It's been, um, okay. So, and you mentioned kind of the main thing. Now why why you're ready to to me and treatment is for your kids.
Amber Romero: Yes, I got into
Amber Romero: CYP issues and I'm
Amber Romero: Gonna parental rights termination.
Amber Romero: And so, like, my kids are with family and I'm allowed to see them and I'm under the
Amber Romero: premise that as long as I am clean and I'm able to provide a safe and stable environment for my children that they can
Amber Romero: Come back with me. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: All right, so that's that's definitely a big motivator, a big factor. So, so we're maybe going to maybe have some coordination with EFT, or they drug testing you like
Amber Romero: Oh no, like, it's, it's already like the, the case is already over.
Amber Romero: They've already been adopted, but like I said there was there with family, so I am able to
Amber Romero: Do video chats and stuff but
Amber Romero: As far as like me being able to have them.
LIsa Anderson: Question, just as far as you mentioned, um, you know, you had tried therapy in the past, have you ever had any therapy or counseling for anything like depression, anxiety, anything like that.
LIsa Anderson: No. Okay, I'm ever been like in a in a hospital like a mental hospital.
LIsa Anderson: Know like that. Okay. Um, and
LIsa Anderson: Alright, so, so kind of your treatment had been around.
LIsa Anderson: Issues in the past.
LIsa Anderson: Yes. Okay. Um, what about, um, any
LIsa Anderson: Any thoughts right now of harming yourself for taking your own life.
LIsa Anderson: No. Okay. Have you ever had those thoughts in the past suicidal.
LIsa Anderson: No. Okay. Um, any, any history where you like would hurt yourself like cutting or entering
LIsa Anderson: Your health
Know,
LIsa Anderson: Just a little bit of
LIsa Anderson: Questions around like your, your safety because
LIsa Anderson: That's kind of what that stuff is about. So just to kind of make sure you're safe.
LIsa Anderson: Last year or so have you been hit or kicked or physically hurt by another
Amber Romero: Person. No.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, um. Are you in a relationship with someone to physically harm to you.
Know,
LIsa Anderson: Anything in your past where someone had physically or emotionally harmed, you
Amber Romero: Yun my past. Yes. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: As a child, or
Amber Romero: An adult
Okay.
A BOYFRIEND.
Amber Romero: Yeah, is the father of my children. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: And and you guys aren't together.
No.
LIsa Anderson: Asking me how many kids do you have
LIsa Anderson: For. Oh, wow. How old are they
Amber Romero: 15 1110 and nine.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, and how long ago was that relationship with their dad ended.
Amber Romero: Good going on six years now.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. In a relationship currently
Amber Romero: Um, yes and no. We're trying to be okay.
LIsa Anderson: All right, um, you know, and you mentioned, you know, being in a safe and stable environment. So I'm just, you know, kind of another safety question what's, what's your living environment like right now.
Amber Romero: I live with my sister. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: And you're kind of in
LIsa Anderson: Northern New Mexico.
Amber Romero: I'm not really for like maybe like the hub center.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, you're not too far from Albuquerque.
Amber Romero: I am well I'm like right this minute, I'm in Albuquerque.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right, so you're able to access
LIsa Anderson: The testing and in the pharmacies and all of that pretty easily.
Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: So do you get help from your sister.
Or
As far as transportation
Amber Romero: I try to find the right but it's not public transportation
Amber Romero: You mentioned you're living with your sister and
LIsa Anderson: Is that
Amber Romero: A pretty
Amber Romero: Good situation for you.
Amber Romero: Yeah, I mean, ideally, I'd rather be in my own place. But for now, it's
Amber Romero: Stable and she supports.
Amber Romero: Each
Family growing up.
Any other brothers or sisters
Amber Romero: I'm
Amber Romero: Really good actually. Um, I was the only child until I was
Amber Romero: 14 and then my mom had two other kids from or second marriage.
Amber Romero: The sister speak of, now she's not my sister, but she
Amber Romero: Just really close to me. So she's my sister that way. But, um,
Amber Romero: Yeah, I mean, I was pretty spoiled kid. I got whatever I wanted. And I agree that was COLLEGE OF ABOUT YOUR SCREEN. Um, my use and stuff didn't come until afterwards.
Amber Romero: But let's see. I grew up with.
Amber Romero: Marlon values. Sorry.
LIsa Anderson: You said you could get pretty normal.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: How old were you when your parents got divorced
Amber Romero: Um, maybe about 10 they they were highschool, sweetheart. So they were together for a long time and they tried to make it work because of me, but they finally separated. I had to have been working okay
LIsa Anderson: And you said you did well in school. No issues.
Amber Romero: No, I, I was always real good in school.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, and you said you graduated high school and you graduated college
Amber Romero: Yes.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. What kind of man. What was your degree in
Amber Romero: Sociology. Okay.
Amber Romero: We can't hear you.
LIsa Anderson: Sorry, I don't know. My connection is
LIsa Anderson: A little bit low. Okay, are we there I'm
LIsa Anderson: That last question ever was, Are you working right now.
LIsa Anderson: No. Okay. Um, what, what's kind of your we had you been working in the past.
Amber Romero: Well, I was working for the US a federal Savings Bank for the past two years, and in December.
Amber Romero: I ended up going to jail. So, it is my job.
Amber Romero: Now with the coronavirus there's everything's on hold. So that's why I'm not working for him.
Amber Romero: So I'm assuming that once this is all over, then I'll be able to to get another job that was kind of waiting around for that.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, sure. Yeah, it's a tough time right now. Okay. Are you receiving any unemployment or any, any other benefits.
Amber Romero: I'm unemployment. No, the only benefits I receive is the food samplers Snapchat, call it here.
Hey,
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, and so you mentioned that you had been in jail. Do you have any ongoing legal problems right now.
Amber Romero: Um, well yes and no.
Amber Romero: I am coming to the end of a, like a total of five years probation stint.
Amber Romero: I am done with the next month when I report report on the 11th and my probation officers going to send the completion request to the judge and as soon as she signs it then I'm done. But my final my final date is June 23 but
Amber Romero: Since she's going to send it in me as soon as the judge scientist, then I'm done so.
LIsa Anderson: Right. Okay. Okay. Well, good. I'm so to complete probation, so no other
LIsa Anderson: Other like pending legal issues.
Amber Romero: Oh, no.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, okay, well, very good. I'm
LIsa Anderson: All right, Amber, um,
LIsa Anderson: Any, anything that you feel like would be helpful for me to know as far as like your spiritual, religious background. Anything that like we could incorporate into your treatment that would be helpful to you.
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: I want to say no. But I don't don't know um I have heard from people that
Amber Romero: A lot of their success. Every had to do with finding a higher power.
Amber Romero: I will say, I don't know if it helps but
Amber Romero: I can't really see
LIsa Anderson: Maybe something we can kind of just
Amber Romero: We're
Amber Romero: Halfway so relieving hospital and the requirements of that was to attend two meetings a week.
LIsa Anderson: Outpatient and then you maybe went to like a halfway
House.
Amber Romero: So you did impatient and then you went to the
Halfway House from there.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Have you done any outpatient
Amber Romero: I'm
LIsa Anderson: Either in an office or like this.
Amber Romero: I I have, um,
Amber Romero: It was required in my parental plan to CYP so I had to do outpatient
Amber Romero: It didn't really apply myself or anything, but I just went to, they had to go, not because we wanted to go okay so
LIsa Anderson: So yeah, I know that I can appreciate that. So,
What do
LIsa Anderson: You feel like that was beneficial.
LIsa Anderson: Outpatient that you kind of had to go because it's the way it is there anything that you could pinpoint that was like maybe why it wasn't so much of a good fit at the time.
Amber Romero: It wasn't ready to stop.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. All right. Okay. I gotcha. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: So, so definitely you wanted to be ready. Okay.
Amber Romero: Yes.
LIsa Anderson: So amber. Um, can you tell me how, how do you cope with, you know, now, now that you're kind of on this path there or in the past. How would you say that you cope with stressful situations.
Amber Romero: Well, usually it's been using
Amber Romero: Lately it's
Amber Romero: Really um
Amber Romero: We try to just keep my mind busy doing something else. I like to draw
LIsa Anderson: What kind of things do you draw
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: Anything really sceneries are like to draw my kids. His name or just like random stuff. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Great. So kind of a creative outlet is how you and then also staying busy.
LIsa Anderson: And I know it's it's tough right now. What sort of things are you finding that you enjoy that that help you stay busy.
Amber Romero: I like to read like learn stuff.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Great. So learning and what
Amber Romero: I mean, that's like that's the issue is like a because I feel like every using for so long. I really haven't
Amber Romero: found anything that I enjoy because the jokes took all that away from me and stuff but
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: Yeah so still kind of learning that I guess, are we learning that hey,
LIsa Anderson: Would you say maybe that would be one of your like a goal, we could
Amber Romero: Find that maybe just sort of
LIsa Anderson: Figuring out you know what you like to do what you're good at.
Amber Romero: You know, now you know.
LIsa Anderson: Away from the drugs.
Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: You know so so coping and that that would be another goal to
LIsa Anderson: Is
Amber Romero: You know, helping
Amber Romero: Find healthy ways
LIsa Anderson: So that was definitely kind of maybe put that
LIsa Anderson: On our
Amber Romero: Can't hear you.
Amber Romero: Like your videos work enough just they can't hear you.
Amber Romero: Tryna
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Real quick. Okay, I'm sorry, can you repeat that, that last thing you said
Amber Romero: Oh, I was saying I can't hear you.
Amber Romero: Okay.
Amber Romero: I can see your mouth moving but like there was no audio coming out. Oh.
LIsa Anderson: I know. I apologize. Okay. Can you hear me now.
Amber Romero: Yes. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Good. So okay, so I don't know if you heard that.
Amber Romero: I was just saying
LIsa Anderson: Maybe coping skills and having healthy coping skills can be something that we can
LIsa Anderson: Look forward to in the future as as a good goal for you.
LIsa Anderson: You know, both
LIsa Anderson: cope with the stress and, you know, identify for you. So sometimes in in treatment. You might have heard this word before, but looking at triggers and things that my
Amber Romero: You know trigger yeah seemed like I don't really. I never really agreed with the with the trigger concept.
Amber Romero: I mean I, from what I understand, people use triggers as like an excuse to us. And for me, there wasn't ever an excuse to you, they just use whatever so I
Amber Romero: I don't know. It could be like oh look, the sun came up. It's a trigger. So that's why I never really agreed with it. I mean, if
Amber Romero: There's three if you're going to use you're going to use. It's not going to be anything like specific as to why OR ANYTHING SPECIFIC THAT WILL like push you into wanting to to you.
Amber Romero: So I
LIsa Anderson: So for you, there wasn't necessarily
LIsa Anderson: And and that's okay. You know, and this might be something that will will identify, but so for you. It wasn't necessarily
Amber Romero: Like
Amber Romero: Oh, I feel
Amber Romero: Upset
LIsa Anderson: Like for you. It was
Right.
LIsa Anderson: Or or nothing.
Amber Romero: Maybe even both just because I wanted to. It wasn't anything specific you know like as to why. It's because they want. They wanted to
Amber Romero: So, I mean, you like we could touch base on on triggers and stuff. But I don't know how much you know like
Amber Romero: Agree to it. So say
LIsa Anderson: No problem, or just kind of tax point where you're at.
LIsa Anderson: How long have you been clean
Amber Romero: Since I got my script couple days ago.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. Um, have you had, you know, when you when you were in the impatient and the sober living. What was the longest amount of time you've been clean in the past.
Amber Romero: I'm
Amber Romero: Probably
Amber Romero: Close to a year.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. Um, so you do have some, you know, some good history. And I think, you know, I would I would put that as a strength, you know, something that you know you've done it before.
LIsa Anderson: And that's a good amount of
Amber Romero: You know,
LIsa Anderson: Kind of clean time on your belt that you've had before. What when
Amber Romero: When you were able to get
LIsa Anderson: In in that year. You know you did.
Amber Romero: Some of the patient, the presidential
LIsa Anderson: Or sober living house. Um, what what works that time for you that you are able to stay clean
Amber Romero: What what what
LIsa Anderson: I'm what work.
LIsa Anderson: You're able to stay
Amber Romero: I'm just
Amber Romero: The one maybe the the people that I was associating with support system, I guess.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. So you had a good support system in place.
LIsa Anderson: And
Amber Romero: And yes,
LIsa Anderson: All around you. Okay. Um, do you mind talking a little bit about amber. So, so then, um, then what do you remember like what happened that that led to that relapse.
Amber Romero: Like, guess I got bored.
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: I'm got bored with sobriety got bored with life. What do you mean by that.
Amber Romero: Just
Amber Romero: Both i mean i
Amber Romero: I just one day. One day, one day I wanted to and and I did. I mean, I felt that after but then I still continue to do it.
LIsa Anderson: And and I'm thinking, thinking about your use Amber I know
LIsa Anderson: A little bit about your kids.
LIsa Anderson: And, you know,
LIsa Anderson: You've gone through this process with CFD. Could you identify like
LIsa Anderson: Anything that works has happened because of your addiction.
Amber Romero: Can identify what
Amber Romero: Like in your mind like the worst thing that's happened.
Because of your addiction.
Amber Romero: The termination of parental rights.
LIsa Anderson: And that's, that's really what's driving down
LIsa Anderson: To get clean and
Amber Romero: stay clean for your kids.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
Amber Romero: Absolutely.
LIsa Anderson: That's definitely a goal that will keep at the forefront.
LIsa Anderson: How would you say your addiction, has
Children.
Amber Romero: How would I say it work.
LIsa Anderson: Your addiction affected your kids.
Amber Romero: Really negatively. I mean, the
Amber Romero: Witness too much and then they're not with me so
Amber Romero: They're not
Amber Romero: They're not happy.
Amber Romero: And they want to be. They want to be with their mom, of course, but
Amber Romero: I mean nothing good came out of
Amber Romero: My youth in regards to my kids.
LIsa Anderson: And what you know kind of thinking your kids to what's, what's the biggest impact your US has had on you on your life.
Amber Romero: The biggest impact that my uses had on my life.
Amber Romero: Not being with my kids.
Amber Romero: And it might
Amber Romero: Destroy relationships.
Amber Romero: With
Amber Romero: With everyone like my family, my kids.
Amber Romero: People that
Amber Romero: Want me to do better and I just didn't really like care to listen.
Amber Romero: So,
LIsa Anderson: You know, looking at, at, where you are now as far as clean and you know you talked about that. That time where you were clean for a year. How you like good social support, you had really good people around you.
LIsa Anderson: So I would definitely kind of put that as as another goal that you know maybe another goal for treatment is maybe rebuilding some of those relationships, you know, of course, rebuilding that relationship with your kids, your kids, rebuilding that on with them.
LIsa Anderson: Then be building and repairing you know
Amber Romero: Other
Amber Romero: Relationships that were provided
LIsa Anderson: By your addiction and then also kind of growing and establishing relationships that will be healthy and and supportive to you.
Amber Romero: Right.
LIsa Anderson: Or some other
Amber Romero: Positive people in your life right now.
Amber Romero: Um, my, my parents and
Amber Romero: My, my kids, of course, and then I have, I have another friend that you know always has
Amber Romero: Heard me out, so to say, or listen to me to guide me in the right direction.
LIsa Anderson: Hey. Okay, great. So, so there's definitely some people that you can reach out to
LIsa Anderson: In times where where maybe you need somebody to talk to or
Amber Romero: Okay, yes.
Um,
LIsa Anderson: And you know one thing cameras were kind of talking about all of this and maybe you've, you've heard some of this in treatment before
LIsa Anderson: But a little bit of, you know, just about the way that drugs affect your body affect your brain. You know there's there's a reason that they're addicting. You know, the way they just latch on to different you know receptor sites and different things in the brain.
LIsa Anderson: So, you know, I think one of our goals, um, you know, maybe for treatment going forward with just to be kind of, you know, giving yourself just some time, you know, it does take time for your brain and your body to kind of
LIsa Anderson: You know i don't i don't want to use the word detox, but just to kind of give your brain and body time to kind of re reset itself. Does that make sense.
Amber Romero: Yeah, so
LIsa Anderson: So maybe when people use substances over a long period of time. You know, there's a lot of ways that
LIsa Anderson: You're there.
LIsa Anderson: Way that they they're thinking the way that they process information, the way that they make decisions, the way they make decisions.
Amber Romero: And so
LIsa Anderson: Takes a little bit of time for
Amber Romero: The brain.
LIsa Anderson: To kind of almost rewire itself a
LIsa Anderson: Little bit.
LIsa Anderson: And takes a little bit of time for your brain to get kind of back
LIsa Anderson: circuited. Right. Does that make sense.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
Amber Romero: You know, you might
LIsa Anderson: Know I know for you. You said you might not have noticed
Amber Romero: Like specific
LIsa Anderson: That led you to use
LIsa Anderson: It, you know, of course substance is kind of
Amber Romero: Will
LIsa Anderson: Will know our ability to really feel our
Feelings.
Amber Romero: For people in early recovery. This
LIsa Anderson: First time in a long
Amber Romero: Time that their experience. Yeah, really feeling, feeling
Amber Romero: Yeah, so
LIsa Anderson: That is, it's going to be helpful just to kind of let you know that
LIsa Anderson: To be patient with yourself.
LIsa Anderson: You know that it's okay. And you're going to learn a lot about this.
Amber Romero: In groups and stuff to will, you know,
LIsa Anderson: Out there.
Amber Romero: And there's a lot happening in your
Free
LIsa Anderson: You know, sort of healing itself and kind of repairing itself from those substances and
So that might
Amber Romero: You know, just just
LIsa Anderson: Just thinking about things that are new to you.
That kind of makes sense.
Amber Romero: Yeah, okay.
LIsa Anderson: Some of the things that that I kind of like to do with my patients is sometimes you will think about
Behaviors.
Amber Romero: So,
LIsa Anderson: So dry and windy.
LIsa Anderson: So, you know, when we think about
LIsa Anderson: Let me think about, you know, any behavior.
LIsa Anderson: You know the
Amber Romero: Process with the
LIsa Anderson: phone and calling your parents or calling a friend.
You know, there's always
LIsa Anderson: Behind our, our actions because, of course, we're
LIsa Anderson: We're complex thinking
LIsa Anderson: Though
Amber Romero: Sometimes those thoughts can
LIsa Anderson: Other times, those thoughts.
LIsa Anderson: Might not be actionable. So one of the things that you know will start to work together on
LIsa Anderson: Is how your thoughts influence
Amber Romero: Your behaviors and
Amber Romero: You know, for a lot of people I
Amber Romero: May be
LIsa Anderson: Happy to meet you know
LIsa Anderson: The feelings aren't there, but we'll talk about feeling bad.
LIsa Anderson: And we'll talk about
LIsa Anderson: Those
LIsa Anderson: How those things are connected thoughts.
feelings and actions.
Amber Romero: And and how
LIsa Anderson: That kind of makes sense.
LIsa Anderson: Will be things that will work on, you know, together, you know, over time. So, so I don't want to overwhelm me or throw too much at you today.
Amber Romero: Well done.
LIsa Anderson: Now, these will be things in group to
Amber Romero: Can you hear me.
Yes, I can hear you.
Amber Romero: Okay. Okay, good.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, so, yes. That'll be all stuff that we we get into that, I just kind of want to just throw that out there as far as, you know,
Amber Romero: Understanding that
LIsa Anderson: Time just
LIsa Anderson: For just to, you know, to kind of recover.
But of course,
LIsa Anderson: How are you feeling physically so far since you've been on on the medication.
Amber Romero: I'm okay.
Amber Romero: My body's having to like readjust
Amber Romero: A lot of anxiety still
Amber Romero: Or
Amber Romero: Like, you still have like the want to do it, but
Amber Romero: I mean I'm I'm adjusting
Amber Romero: It's hard.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah yeah
LIsa Anderson: Definitely, yeah.
He told me a little bit more
LIsa Anderson: When you say that you still have anxiety, um,
Amber Romero: Can you tell me a little bit.
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: I
Amber Romero: Know, don't really know how to answer that question.
LIsa Anderson: Like an anxious feeling of wanting to you.
Amber Romero: I'm like a little bit. I mean,
Amber Romero: I
Amber Romero: I don't know how to how to explain it. I don't know how to answer that is
Amber Romero: From, like, maybe adjusting or I don't, I don't know.
LIsa Anderson: So,
LIsa Anderson: As you're you're used to having
The drug of air.
That's not there.
LIsa Anderson: That was kind of your default your go to was with us. If you feel good. If you feel bad.
Amber Romero: If it was day
LIsa Anderson: It was. Yeah, that was kind of your go to
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: You know that you're
LIsa Anderson: You're clean
Amber Romero: Is it like a little bit
LIsa Anderson: And now this is kind of like a new
Amber Romero: Here, like every other every other word you're saying is, is cutting out so I don't
Amber Romero: I don't know what you're asking me
LIsa Anderson: Okay, I'm sorry. I'll repeat that. So is it kind of like when you were using before. That was kind of the norm for you, like, that was sort of your go to and now that you're clean
LIsa Anderson: Is it. Yeah, it's like
New
Amber Romero: It's just yeah i mean it's it's different.
Amber Romero: Being in treatment because I mean it's not the real world. So to say no. So
Amber Romero: I just said. I said, adjusting I
Amber Romero: Kind of lost don't really know what to do.
LIsa Anderson: And those
Amber Romero: Are all totally
LIsa Anderson: And I wanted to say that you're not, you're not alone.
LIsa Anderson: Going through the phone.
LIsa Anderson: And what you've done.
LIsa Anderson: But yeah, I definitely want you to know. Like, you're not alone in this. We have, you know, you'll have a whole team of people here to support you. And then when you're in the group as well, you know, you'll have your other
LIsa Anderson: peppery know it'll be a huge
LIsa Anderson: Know not going out as much. How are you kind of spending your days right now.
LIsa Anderson: I know it's only been a few days.
Amber Romero: Oh, sorry. Hey, every other word is not like I can't hear you think cutting out. So I think what you're asking me is, what do I do all day.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah. Yeah, basically.
LIsa Anderson: Asking
Amber Romero: I'm at the park.
LIsa Anderson: Today, okay.
Amber Romero: Yeah, I mean I
Amber Romero: Just kind of do nothing. I mean, I look for. I look for jobs, but I mean as far as the application process or the interview process or anything. I mean everything's a standstill, so I
Amber Romero: Mean
Amber Romero: Just try to
Amber Romero: Keep busy. Yes.
LIsa Anderson: So, so getting outside getting fresh air.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
Amber Romero: For you.
LIsa Anderson: For for all of us right now.
Amber Romero: The first part, I heard was
Amber Romero: bide my time and linger and motor and
Amber Romero: Put off for
Amber Romero: You absolutely nothing all day.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, gotcha. And, and this is, you know, this world we're living in now is kind of a uncharted territory for everybody. So we're, we're all kind of figuring this out. Um, do you, you feel okay about that or is that something that you might want to
Amber Romero: Hear you're cutting out
Amber Romero: I
Amber Romero: Don't really have a choice.
Amber Romero: I mean, if I'm able to work, it will work.
Amber Romero: WITH US Federal Savings Bank.
Amber Romero: Is there for two years. So
Amber Romero: I mean, I don't mind going to work. I'd rather go to work, instead of doing nothing but
Amber Romero: Without being able to work. They just do nothing.
Sure.
LIsa Anderson: How you know even though you're not working, how, how you can incorporate you know just healthy skills healthy living healthy eating how you can create, you know, some feelings of accomplishment or things you enjoy. You know, like drawing and
Amber Romero: You know FaceTime in your kid.
LIsa Anderson: hard time hearing you. I don't know if it's the wind out there, but, um, you know, just also maybe think about, you know, just
LIsa Anderson: Tell you as far as like
LIsa Anderson: You know, eating, drinking water.
Sure you're getting
LIsa Anderson: The kind of just thinking about those things that are helpful to you.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Would you say you go to the park.
Amber Romero: Every day.
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: I mean no cuz like the weather's just barely starting to get nice outside now.
Amber Romero: Meaning, I don't really like to hang out myself.
Amber Romero: Me. It's something that I can possibly integrate into my life coming to work every day saying no, but
Yes.
LIsa Anderson: It's been tough because it's been really
Amber Romero: Bad
Amber Romero: Any, anything else. And so, sorry, is the condition is the connection usually like this. Like it just got like really bad with the last couple minutes.
LIsa Anderson: You're
LIsa Anderson: Like your date.
Amber Romero: I'm going to my, to my data. I mean, I'm
Amber Romero: Great comfort zone.
Amber Romero: I mean, I even have
Amber Romero: Six bars.
LIsa Anderson: I'm sorry about that. Yeah, I know, I know my wife I cut out for a minute. But, um, but I'm back now, I'm full access so
LIsa Anderson: I don't know.
LIsa Anderson: If it's
LIsa Anderson: If it's the data or the Wi Fi.
LIsa Anderson: So maybe
LIsa Anderson: Maybe hopefully next time. If you're at at the house. It might be better. I don't know.
LIsa Anderson: Um, do you have Wi Fi at
Your sister's place.
Amber Romero: No, I know I don't usually they usually by Friday have unlimited
Amber Romero: unlimited data mean it doesn't really you don't usually have issues with with the data or connection or anything on the phone.
Amber Romero: But I was wondering, like, maybe if if it's usually like if our audio is usually like this. I've never done anything like this. So I don't. I really don't know what to expect, you know,
LIsa Anderson: Or no, I hear you. It is it is different, um,
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, so I, some people, you know, I don't know if they're if maybe being inside if it's a little bit quieter, or if you can get on like a mobile hotspot.
LIsa Anderson: That might be a little bit more stable connection than the, the, like, getting on a Wi Fi like jumping onto a Wi Fi.
LIsa Anderson: But you're going to have group soon. So see how that how that goes.
LIsa Anderson: And and I can reach out on my end and see if there's anything going on on my end. Sometimes if people use headphones.
Amber Romero: Like if your
LIsa Anderson: Volume wise and
Amber Romero: I can, I can hear. I can hear you just fine. And just like every couple words, it's coming out.
Amber Romero: Like computerized so to see either computerized or not at all. So like I can see your like your lips moving just every other word wasn't coming out. Gotcha.
Amber Romero: Yeah, like volume is just fine. Okay. Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Might be the connection. So, but I know this is this is new and it's a little bit funky, you know, compared to maybe sitting face to face with somebody
LIsa Anderson: But see how your other sessions. Go. Um, if you're using, you know, just a, like a data on your cell phone. It might be if you could try to get on like a public Wi Fi. And I know that's, you know, might not be possible.
LIsa Anderson: Right now, because you know of everything that's happening.
LIsa Anderson: So, okay, I'm sorry and I you know I will check and make sure there's any nothing going on on my end. So we can we can go ahead and and wrap up amber. Do you have any questions or
Concerns
Amber Romero: Not too much, um,
Amber Romero: So I guess maybe one question I have. So how often, how often do you do or do I do individual or do I am I meeting with you every week or how does it work from here. Yes.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, so from here on out for individual you'll be meeting with me and that's weekly
With Dr.
Amber Romero: Yeah, I got I got that part. So, I understand that.
Amber Romero: But as far as the individual just
Amber Romero: I'm sorry, did you ask me a good time.
LIsa Anderson: Good time for you.
Amber Romero: I'm actually
Amber Romero: So I am able to do video chat with my kids, three times a week.
Amber Romero: So ideally, I probably wouldn't want something on those days like that.
Amber Romero: Have dinner.
Amber Romero: With them.
Amber Romero: Wednesday and Friday.
Amber Romero: So feely Tuesday or Thursday would be good for me. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Gotcha. Um, yeah, I definitely want that to be
I usually
LIsa Anderson: Eligibility
LIsa Anderson: 30 days gonna
LIsa Anderson: Pull up something here real quick amor
LIsa Anderson: So, yeah.
Thursday's
LIsa Anderson: openings between about one in 4pm
When
LIsa Anderson: Would that work for you.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, what I'm and now. Don't call me to
Amber Romero: Confirm that
LIsa Anderson: When I connect and I can have them put that in. Should we say what do you have a preference between one and four.
Amber Romero: In the afternoon. Um, I don't have a preference. Um, I want more of
Amber Romero: Like a stability, like I know what time is, I mean, the for me between one and four is kind of a big gap. So I mean as far as waiting around for the call. I that's really kind of hard for me. Um, if it's something scheduled it
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, we'll schedule it so and we can probably do the same time each week, just so we kind of have that consistency.
LIsa Anderson: So, okay, just house one house one o'clock, then
Amber Romero: That's fine. Thursday's
LIsa Anderson: Yes, at 1pm and I won't have the schedulers like emailing you
LIsa Anderson: Email you that time.
And confirm that appointment.
You might
I'm sorry.
LIsa Anderson: I'm sorry. I'm so I'll have the schedulers email you that confirmation
Amber Romero: Or, hold on.
Amber Romero: Hold on just a second. I am I can't hear you. Hold on, hold on.
Amber Romero: Your it's showing me read next to your name like first signal.
Okay, well, we'll give it
LIsa Anderson: give it just a minute.
LIsa Anderson: Can you hear me now.
Yes.
LIsa Anderson: Week and
LIsa Anderson: The scheduling.
LIsa Anderson: Process will be
LIsa Anderson: All that process will stay the same.
Amber Romero: Okay, so they call me at one o'clock or I have to call in
LIsa Anderson: You have to
Amber Romero: Do I have to call in like a certain hour or half an hour early
LIsa Anderson: Yes. Yeah, about about 20 minutes early prior prior to, I want to pop a point and
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, just like you did today.
LIsa Anderson: And then
Amber Romero: Question.
About your medication.
LIsa Anderson: Just about therapy or about the plan.
LIsa Anderson: Is calling to bright heart.
LIsa Anderson: You know, if, if it is an emergency always access PR. Hopefully not. I don't anticipate that that you would need that, but you can always call into the main bright hartline would be your first call if you, you know, just have any problems or concerns or questions.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, well, very good. Amber. Well, I will get that appointment set up and they'll send you an email just to confirm that kind of give you that instructions.
Amber Romero: And
LIsa Anderson: I apologize for the connection. I'll do some research on my end to see if there's anything I can do to
LIsa Anderson: Make this better.
LIsa Anderson: I hope you have a good rest of your day and and I really look forward to working with you.
Amber Romero: Okay, thank you. And thank you for your time. I'll see you. So this is Thursday the 16th.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: And you'll get an email reminder
LIsa Anderson: Great.
LIsa Anderson: That was amber Romero
LIsa Anderson: New patient seen for
LIsa Anderson: opiate dependence and my initial bio so cool bio psychosocial assessment with her.
LIsa Anderson: She denied any current suicidal or homicidal ideation.
LIsa Anderson: Or any plans of self harm.
LIsa Anderson: Her history.
LIsa Anderson: Was significant for starting at the age of 12 years old, use of alcohol. She's currently using nicotine smoking cigarettes.
LIsa Anderson: History of marijuana use history of
LIsa Anderson: Cocaine crack US history of methamphetamine use
LIsa Anderson: And her her current
LIsa Anderson: Most recent drug of choice was heroin.
LIsa Anderson: This is
LIsa Anderson: One of her second attempts at at treatment. She does have a history of a one year period of sobriety.
LIsa Anderson: She
LIsa Anderson: Is currently on probation, but it appears that she is compliant with all of her current probation requirements and is set to complete her probation. In June of this year.
LIsa Anderson: Another psychosocial stress or she identified is her children being in custody of a family member her having lost custody due to her drug use.
LIsa Anderson: But she did identify that as her her main goal for treatment and one of her main motivations for getting clean. At this time, would be to get her kids back and she identified having how were drug use damage to a relationship with them and that being a big
LIsa Anderson: Motivation factor in her getting clean at this time.
LIsa Anderson: Some of her strengths
LIsa Anderson: I think
LIsa Anderson: Live in her ability to identify some of her interests and ability, she identified good social support in the form of her parents and a good friend.
LIsa Anderson: She identified
LIsa Anderson: Being wanting to reconnect with some of her hobbies and some of her her interests around drawing and she recognized that
LIsa Anderson: Her drug use had really impacted her ability to
LIsa Anderson: Have have hobbies have interests.
LIsa Anderson: She some of her strengths include she does have a history of employment, she has a bachelor's degree her other strengths included her family support.
LIsa Anderson: Some of her risk factors revolved around
LIsa Anderson: A lack of insight around her substance use history.
LIsa Anderson: And in some difficulty identifying
LIsa Anderson: Triggers or her her feelings that her drug you sort of happen and that would definitely be a potential area to focus treatment on is improving insight.
LIsa Anderson: increasing awareness. She didn't have some good reflection around how her drug use impacted her life, how it impacted her family, how it, it led to her directly losing her children and how it it harms them so that would be certainly something to build upon
LIsa Anderson: Other treatment goals would include
LIsa Anderson: Improving her day to day functioning around structuring her day structuring healthy habits incorporating healthy coping skills and really helping her to identify what thoughts and feelings precipitated her drug use.
LIsa Anderson: What factors contributed to that drug use and helping her develop some insight and awareness into
LIsa Anderson: Why she used and how how she can promote using in the future.
LIsa Anderson: Her mental status exam. She was alert and oriented.
LIsa Anderson: She was oriented to to person, place in time. However, her attention did not seem to be focused on this session, which could have been related to maybe some of the technical technological
LIsa Anderson: unfamiliarity and she had mentioned that this was the first time she had used this modality.
LIsa Anderson: But
LIsa Anderson: Her her attention didn't really seem to be focused
LIsa Anderson: On the session. She was outside which which made it difficult
LIsa Anderson: For me to hear she she mentioned that she had some issues that I think she's having issues with her. Her Wi Fi.
LIsa Anderson: So, but that that did it didn't impact the the connection and attention to the session.
LIsa Anderson: She was well groomed again I contact was really poor which could have been due to the technology aspect, but she she really had zero eye contact and often would even have the phone.
LIsa Anderson: Facing the top of her head or the outside environment so that that could have been a reflective
LIsa Anderson: Response
LIsa Anderson: You know, reflected in her behavior her motor activity was within normal limits.
LIsa Anderson: Her permeated with youth dynamic with a congruent affect
LIsa Anderson: Her speech was within normal limits gratitude was cooperative
LIsa Anderson: And in normal for the
LIsa Anderson: Setting again her engagement was a little off. But that could have been due to the
LIsa Anderson: You know, just, just the setting.
LIsa Anderson: And her getting used to the use of technology of the session her thought process was linear
LIsa Anderson: There was no evidence of loose association or
LIsa Anderson: You know circumstantial thought
LIsa Anderson: Her thought content was appropriate to the topic at hand. There was no evidence of delusions or hallucinations.
LIsa Anderson: Her
LIsa Anderson: Her impulse control was not thoroughly assessed at this time. But given her her history of drug use.
LIsa Anderson: I would
LIsa Anderson: Assess a poor level of impulse control.
LIsa Anderson: And and and certainly her judgment in regards to her history of drug use.
LIsa Anderson: We've seen poor her insight.
LIsa Anderson: I think at this point.
LIsa Anderson: Was was porch affair. She was able to identify some of the ways in which her substance use harmed others around her and think about how it negatively impacted her life, but she was not really able to identify and it wasn't
LIsa Anderson: Would be an area for further explanation as far as her her insight into her drug use.
LIsa Anderson: attention and memory and cognition was not assessed at this encounter with patient was provided with instructions on how to access
LIsa Anderson: Future appointments with this therapist, we discuss an initial treatment plan to begin weekly therapy starting next Thursday.
LIsa Anderson: Beginning at 1pm
LIsa Anderson: Mountain time and that would be our initial treatment plan going forward in our next session will focus on treatment planning and she was provided with information about how to access bright heart health.
LIsa Anderson: Should you have any questions or concerns. In the meantime, she was instructed to attend group as scheduled she mentioned having
LIsa Anderson: Visits and phone calls scheduled with her children and that will also in future treatment planning really focus on developing some good habits for her a daily schedule. I think would be really helpful. And certainly, including
LIsa Anderson: Her time with her children on those video chats and that seemed like a big strength for her, that she's really focused on those, but she didn't really seem to have very much of any day to day
LIsa Anderson: Schedule or or routine. And I think that would be really helpful for her.
LIsa Anderson: To get into something productive and so that next session will be next Thursday at 1pm. Thank you.